README.md, before:

# Environments
An environment in terms of programming is a location where we would deploy the code. There can be several different environments.
- Development environment
- Testing environment – using a virtual machine
- Production environment – using a virtual machine


# What is AWS?

Amazon Web Services is a cloud computing platform provides an array of cloud services. We can define AWS (Amazon Web Services) as a secured cloud services platform that offers:
 - Compute power
 - Database storage
 - Content delivery
 - various other functionalities.

Aws is the infrastructure as a service, One key thing it provides is a global infrastructure.
Allows us to rent infrastructure per second.

- IAM - Identity access management (where you can create or destroy users)
- Ec2 – elastic computing 2
- Security groups
- VPCS
- Deployment
- Other services

# Creating a E2 instance

# Provisioning

![prov1](images/prov1.png)

2) Direct inside the directory use the ```ls ``` command to confirm your location
3) use the ```cd environment``` command to enter the directory
4) Create a provisions.sh file or enter your file using ```nano provisions.sh```


```python


sudo unlink /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
cd /etc/nginx/sites-available
sudo touch reverse-proxy.conf
sudo chmod 666 reverse-proxy.conf
echo "server{
  listen 80;
  location / {
      proxy_pass http://192.168.10.100:3000;
  }
}" >> reverse-proxy.conf
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/reverse-proxy.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/reverse-proxy.conf
sudo service nginx restart

#### installing git
sudo apt-get install git -y

#### installing nodejs
sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_12.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install nodejs -y

#### installing pm2
sudo npm install pm2 -g


#### App set up
export DB_HOST="mongodb://192.168.10.150:27017/posts"
cd /home/ubuntu/app
sudo su
npm install

```
This is the provisions.sh file. It allow for automation of the following:
- Installing packages
- Configuring files
- Syncing files
- Provisioning folders
- Provisioning a machine
- Environment variables

Nginx, npm



# New commands

To sinc documents from your OS to your VM use the following command:
``` scp -i ~/.ssh/DevOpsStudents.pem -r app/ ubuntu@52.48.95.163:~/app/ ```

When creating the provision file in the environment folder I then used thw following command to sync:
``` scp -i ~/.ssh/DevOpsStudents.pem -r environment/ ubuntu@52.48.95.163:~/env/ ```

If an error occurs when tryung to sinc use the following command:
``` scp -o "IdentitiesOnly yes" -i ~/.ssh/DevOpsStudents.pem -r app/ ubuntu@52.48.95.163:~/app/ ```

Once the provision and app directorys have been moved into the VMO
Once the connection has been succesful you should be able to access the webpage through your ipv4 address created using a E2 instance on AWS.

![prov1](images/proof1.png)
![prov1](images/proof2.png)

Commit message:

Adding Images and EC2 instance notes

README.md, after:

# Environments
An environment in terms of programming is a location where we would deploy the code. There can be several different environments.
- Development environment
- Testing environment – using a virtual machine
- Production environment – using a virtual machine


# What is AWS?

Amazon Web Services is a cloud computing platform provides an array of cloud services. We can define AWS (Amazon Web Services) as a secured cloud services platform that offers:
 - Compute power
 - Database storage
 - Content delivery
 - various other functionalities.

Aws is the infrastructure as a service, One key thing it provides is a global infrastructure.
Allows us to rent infrastructure per second.

- IAM - Identity access management (where you can create or destroy users)
- Ec2 – elastic computing 2
- Security groups
- VPCS
- Deployment
- Other services

# Creating a E2 instance

Once on the AWS dashboard, click on services and then under computer select EC2
![E21](images/E21.png)

Now we can select the VM we want to create. In my case I choose the Ubuntu machine as it was the closest to my testing environment
![E22](images/E22.png)

Once the E2 Instance has been created we can see a variety of information. I am after the ipv4 address located in the read
![EC3](images/EC3.png)



# Provisioning

![prov1](images/prov1.png)

2) Direct inside the directory use the ```ls ``` command to confirm your location
3) use the ```cd environment``` command to enter the directory
4) Create a provisions.sh file or enter your file using ```nano provisions.sh```


```python


sudo unlink /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
cd /etc/nginx/sites-available
sudo touch reverse-proxy.conf
sudo chmod 666 reverse-proxy.conf
echo "server{
  listen 80;
  location / {
      proxy_pass http://192.168.10.100:3000;
  }
}" >> reverse-proxy.conf
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/reverse-proxy.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/reverse-proxy.conf
sudo service nginx restart

#### installing git
sudo apt-get install git -y

#### installing nodejs
sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_12.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install nodejs -y

#### installing pm2
sudo npm install pm2 -g


#### App set up
export DB_HOST="mongodb://192.168.10.150:27017/posts"
cd /home/ubuntu/app
sudo su
npm install

```
This is the provisions.sh file. It allow for automation of the following:
- Installing packages
- Configuring files
- Syncing files
- Provisioning folders
- Provisioning a machine
- Environment variables

Nginx, npm



# New commands

To sinc documents from your OS to your VM use the following command:
``` scp -i ~/.ssh/DevOpsStudents.pem -r app/ ubuntu@52.48.95.163:~/app/ ```

When creating the provision file in the environment folder I then used thw following command to sync:
``` scp -i ~/.ssh/DevOpsStudents.pem -r environment/ ubuntu@52.48.95.163:~/env/ ```

If an error occurs when tryung to sinc use the following command:
``` scp -o "IdentitiesOnly yes" -i ~/.ssh/DevOpsStudents.pem -r app/ ubuntu@52.48.95.163:~/app/ ```

Once the provision and app directorys have been moved into the VMO
Once the connection has been succesful you should be able to access the webpage through your ipv4 address created using a E2 instance on AWS.

![prov1](images/proof1.png)
![prov1](images/proof2.png)
